= Telespot OSINT Research Wiki =

────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Phone-Number-Centric Open-Source Intelligence Tooling
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

'''Project Scope'''  
Architecture • Methodology • Ethics • Performance • Future Direction  

'''Audience'''  
OSINT practitioners, security researchers, investigators, developers

---

== Overview ==

'''Telespot''' is a phone-number-centric open-source intelligence (OSINT) ecosystem designed to automate early-stage reconnaissance while preserving analyst judgment, transparency, and ethical constraints.

Unlike traditional OSINT frameworks that treat phone numbers as secondary attributes, Telespot elevates the phone number to a '''first-class investigative entity'''.

The ecosystem is composed of three interoperable tools:

┌─────────────┐  
│  Telespot   │  Python CLI • Foundational  
└──────┬──────┘  
       │  
┌──────▼──────┐  
│ TeleSpotter │  Rust • High-Performance  
└──────┬──────┘  
       │  
┌──────▼──────┐  
│ TeleSpotXX  │  Web Platform • Real-Time  
└─────────────┘  

Each layer builds upon the previous one, increasing speed, scalability, and accessibility without obscuring methodology.

---

== Purpose and Scope ==

Phone numbers are persistent identifiers embedded throughout modern digital infrastructure, including:

Telecommunications systems  
Account authentication and recovery flows  
Messaging platforms and social networks  
Online marketplaces and business directories  

Because phone numbers are reused across services and retained for long periods, they represent a high-value pivot point in OSINT investigations.

'''Telespot addresses a specific gap:'''

Early-stage phone-number triage is slow, manual, and error-prone. Investigators must normalize formats, query multiple engines, interpret fragmented results, and reconcile contradictions across sources.

Telespot reverses the traditional OSINT model by starting with the phone number itself and automating repetitive reconnaissance tasks.

---

== Design Philosophy ==

The Telespot ecosystem adheres to a consistent investigative philosophy.

────────────────────────────────────────  
• Phone numbers are primary entities  
• Automation reduces friction, not judgment  
• Correlation over attribution  
• Signals over certainty  
• Speed and stealth are explicit trade-offs  
• Transparency over abstraction  
────────────────────────────────────────  

The tools intentionally avoid claims of identity resolution. Instead, they surface repeating patterns that assist analysts in deciding whether deeper investigation is warranted.

---

== Tooling ==

=== Telespot (Python) ===

Telespot is the foundational implementation of the project.

It is a single-script Python tool designed to run locally with minimal configuration and maximal transparency.

'''Core functionality'''

Automatic generation of up to ten phone-number format permutations  
Multi-engine querying across Google, Bing, DuckDuckGo, and optional Dehashed  
Pattern extraction focused on names, locations, and usernames  
Correlation of repeated identifiers across engines and formats  

'''Execution modes'''

Standard Mode  
Optimized for stealth using randomized delays, user-agent rotation, and request spacing. Typical runtime is approximately sixty seconds.

Fast Mode (`telespotx.py`)  
Uses asynchronous execution and parallel requests. Optimized for U.S. numbers. Typical runtime is approximately five seconds, with increased detection risk.

This dual-mode design reflects real-world OSINT operational constraints.

---

=== TeleSpotter (Rust) ===

TeleSpotter is a ground-up rewrite focused on performance, stability, and modularity.

Implemented in Rust, it uses a fully asynchronous architecture.

┌───────────────┐  
│ Phone Parsing │  
└──────┬────────┘  
       │  
┌──────▼────────┐  
│ Search Engine │  
│   Execution   │  
└──────┬────────┘  
       │  
┌──────▼────────┐  
│ Pattern &     │  
│ Signal Logic  │  
└───────────────┘  

'''Key enhancements'''

Asynchronous execution using tokio and reqwest  
Expanded pattern extraction including email addresses  
Integration with Sherlock, Blackbird, and email2phonenumber  
Direct querying of multiple people-lookup databases  
Advanced anti-detection logic with exponential backoff  

'''Documented improvements'''

Execution time reduced from ~65 seconds to ~18 seconds  
Memory usage reduced from ~48 MB to ~8 MB  

TeleSpotter is suitable for high-volume workflows and constrained environments.

---

=== TeleSpotXX (Web Platform) ===

TeleSpotXX extends the ecosystem into a real-time web application.

It combines the capabilities of Telespot and TeleSpotter behind an accessible interface.

'''Architecture'''

┌──────────────┐     WebSockets     ┌──────────────┐  
│  Front-End   │ ◀───────────────▶ │   Back-End   │  
│ Tailwind UI  │                   │   Flask API  │  
└──────────────┘                   └──────┬───────┘  
                                           │  
                                 ┌─────────▼─────────┐  
                                 │ Search & Analysis │  
                                 │     Modules       │  
                                 └───────────────────┘  

'''Features'''

Multi-engine and multi-database searching  
Real-time result streaming  
Reuse of TeleSpotter pattern-recognition logic  
Local and Docker-based deployment  
Support for domestic and international phone formats  

TeleSpotXX lowers the barrier to entry while preserving transparency and analyst control.

---

== Architecture Summary ==

Telespot  
Monolithic Python script using synchronous HTTP requests and regex-based extraction.

Telespot Fast Mode  
Asynchronous execution using asyncio and httpx for rapid triage.

TeleSpotter  
Fully asynchronous Rust architecture with modular separation of concerns.

TeleSpotXX  
Client-server model with real-time streaming and interactive visualization.

---

== Evaluation Criteria ==

The ecosystem is evaluated across three primary dimensions.

Execution time under realistic network conditions  
Memory usage based on documented benchmarks  
Feature coverage across engines, databases, and extracted signal types  

Due to live search-engine variability, benchmarks are indicative rather than absolute.

---

== Ethical and Legal Considerations ==

The Telespot ecosystem is explicitly designed for lawful OSINT research.

All tools operate exclusively on publicly accessible information.  
No authentication is bypassed.  
No paywalls are evaded.  
No private databases are accessed.  

TeleSpotXX does not retain centralized data, and session-based execution minimizes persistence risk.

By emphasizing probabilistic signal discovery rather than attribution, the tools reduce the likelihood of misuse or false certainty.

Open-source transparency enables independent auditing and validation.

---

== Future Directions ==

Potential areas of expansion include:

Expanded international numbering support  
Language-agnostic pattern extraction  
Integration with passive breach datasets  
Adaptive throttling based on detection feedback  

More broadly, the ecosystem reflects a shift toward '''precision OSINT tooling'''—small, focused systems designed to answer specific investigative questions quickly and responsibly.

---

== Conclusion ==

The Telespot ecosystem demonstrates how a narrowly scoped OSINT problem can be addressed through iterative engineering across languages and platforms.

From a Python script to asynchronous execution, a high-performance Rust rewrite, and a real-time web interface, the project achieves substantial gains in speed, usability, and accessibility without compromising ethics or analyst judgment.

Telespot, TeleSpotter, and TeleSpotXX collectively fill a critical gap in phone-number-centric OSINT and serve as a reference model for future focused intelligence tooling.

────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
End of Wiki Entry
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
